Artificial intelligence (AI) is the intelligence of machines or software, as opposed to the intelligence of humans or other living beings. Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval, scene interpretation, clinical decision support, knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large databases), and other areas.A knowledge base is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program. "Heuristics" or "rules of thumb" can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal.Adversarial search is used for game-playing programs, such as chess or Go. The decision tree is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. Specialized hardware and software
In the late 2010s, graphics processing units (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized TensorFlow software, had replaced previously used central processing unit (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic) machine learning models' training. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about privacy, surveillance and copyright. This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government. "Criticism of COMPAS highlighted a deeper problem with the misuse of AI. The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading.People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation. Philosopher Nick Bostrom argued that if one gives almost any goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a paperclip factory manager). The study of logic led directly to Alan Turing's theory of computation, which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate both mathematical deduction and formal reasoning, which is known as the Church–Turing thesis. Another AI founder, Marvin Minsky similarly defines it as "the ability to solve hard problems".